docs: restructure and add more content (#2232)
caos/zitadel: docs/docs/concepts/usecases/saas.md

---
title: Saas Product with Authentication and Authorization
---

This is an example architecture for a typical SaaS product. 

> To illustrate it a fictional organization and project is taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate it, a fictional organization and project is used.
```

## Example Case

The Timing Company has a product called Time.
They have two environments, the development and the production environment.
In this case Time uses authentication and authorizations from ZITADEL.
This means that the users and also their authorizations will be managed within ZITADEL.

![Architecture](/img/concepts/usecase/saas.png)

## Organization

> An organization is the top level in ZITADEL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An organization is the ZITADEL resource which contains users, projects, applications, policies and so on. 
```

IMO the `system` is the top level 😁

In an organization projects and users are managed by the organization.
You need at least one organization for your own company in our case "The Timing Company".

For your custumers you have different possibilities:

> 1. Your customer already owns an organization ZITADEL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your customer already owns an organization in ZITADEL
```

2. Your customer creates a new organization in ZITADEL by itself
3. You create an organization for your customer (If you like to verify the domain, the customer has to do it)

:::info

> Subscriptions are organization based. This means, that each organization can choose her own tier based on the needed features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscriptions are organization based. This means, that each organization can choose their own tier based on the needed features.
```

:::

## Project

The idea of projects is to have a vessel for all components who are closely related to each other.

> In our use case we would have two different projects, for each environment one. So lets call it "Time Dev" and "Time Prod".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this use case we would have two different projects, for each environment one. So lets call it "Time Dev" and "Time Prod".
```

> These projects should be created in "The Timing Company" organization, because this is the owner of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These projects should be created in "The Timing Company" organization, because it is the owner of the project.
```

In the project you will configure all your roles and applications (clients and APIs).

### Project Settings

You can configure `check roles on authentication` on the project, if you want to restrict access to users that have the correct authorization for the project.

### Project Grant

> To give a customer permissions to a project, a project grant to the customer is needed (search the granted organization by its domain).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give a customer permissions to a project, a project grant to the customers organization is needed (search the granted organization by its domain).
```

> It is also possible to delegate only specific roles of the project to a customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to delegate only specific roles of the project to a certain customer.
```

As soon as a project grant exists, the customer will see the project in the granted projects section of his organization and will be able to authorize his own users to the given project.

## Authorizations

To give a user permission to a project an authorization is needed.

> All organizations which own the project or got it granted are able to authorize users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All organizations which own the project or received a grant are able to authorize users.
```
